# caffe2op-enforce

caffe2op-enforce is a Rust crate that provides
a mathematical operator used in DSP and machine
learning computations. The crate includes the
EnforceFinite operator, which is used to enforce
finiteness of tensor values during computation.

The EnforceFinite operator is typically used in
situations where numerical stability is important,
such as in deep neural networks. It takes a tensor
as input and outputs the same tensor with all
non-finite values replaced by a specified
value. The EnforceFinite operator can help prevent
issues such as NaN (Not a Number) values from
propagating through the network and causing
numerical instability.

The crate also includes the EnsureClipped
operator, which ensures that tensor values are
within a specified range by clipping them if they
fall outside of that range. This can also help
prevent numerical instability in neural networks.

Finally, the CopyWithContext operator is included
to allow for copying data between different
contexts, such as between CPU and GPU memory.

Overall, caffe2op-enforce provides a set of useful
operators for maintaining numerical stability in
machine learning and DSP computations.
