# caffe2op-erf

A crate providing a mathematical operator that
computes the error function, also known as the
Gauss error function. The error function is used
in signal processing, probability theory, and
statistics. In machine learning, the error
function is used as an activation function in
neural networks.

**Note: This crate is currently being translated from C++ to Rust, and some function bodies may still be in the process of translation.**

The error function is defined as the integral of
the Gaussian probability distribution function
from minus infinity to a given point x:

![erf equation](https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.image?erf(x)&space;=&space;\frac{2}{\sqrt{\pi}}\int_{0}^{x}e^{-t^{2}}dt)

This function has a sigmoid-like shape, with
a range between -1 and 1. The error function is
used in neural networks as an activation function
for its smooth and non-linear properties. The
derivative of the error function can be calculated
analytically and is used in backpropagation during
the training process of a neural network.

This crate provides the error function and its
gradient, computed using the chain rule of
differentiation. The crate also provides a functor
that returns the gradient of the error function
given its output values.

In addition to the error function, this crate also
provides the arcsine and square root functions,
which are useful for normalization and data
preprocessing in machine learning.

Overall, caffe2op-erf is a useful tool for
implementing neural networks and signal processing
algorithms that involve the error function and
related mathematical operations.


