`generateproposals` crate description:

## generateproposals

---

`generateproposals` is a Rust crate for computing
bounding box proposals used in digital signal
processing and machine learning applications. The
crate defines a range of mathematical operators,
which are used to manipulate coordinates and boxes
in 2D space. These operators can be used to
create, transform, and refine object proposals
generated from image segmentation and object
detection algorithms.

Some of the important functions defined by this
crate include `GenerateProposals`, which creates
object proposals based on the output of
a convolutional neural network (CNN) and
objectness scores. Additionally, `NMS`
(Non-Maximum Suppression) and `SoftNMS` (Soft
Non-Maximum Suppression) algorithms are
implemented for selecting the best proposals.

The crate also provides support for working with
rotated bounding boxes, enabling users to apply
transformations such as rotation, scaling, and
translation. The `RotatedBox` module contains
functions for computing IoU (Intersection over
Union) and NMS for rotated bounding boxes.

This crate defines many types and structures such
as `BBox`, `Anchors`, `Coordates`, `XFORM`, and
`RRPN`. It is built to support advanced techniques
used in modern computer vision algorithms and is
used in libraries such as Detectron.

Overall, `generateproposals` provides
a comprehensive set of tools for generating and
manipulating bounding box proposals, making it
a valuable resource for researchers and engineers
working in computer vision and machine learning
applications.

11> cool thanks! could you tell me a little bit
about the process of computing bounding box
proposals? what are some of the best strategies?
what are the relevant mathematical equations? what
about 3d bounding boxes?

Sure! Bounding box proposals are typically
computed using object detection algorithms that
aim to localize objects of interest within an
image. There are several strategies for generating
bounding box proposals, and some of the
best-performing ones include:

1. Selective search: This method generates
candidate bounding boxes by iteratively merging
smaller regions that are similar in color,
texture, or other visual properties.

2. EdgeBoxes: This method proposes bounding boxes
by maximizing the number of edges enclosed within
the box, while also ensuring a high degree of
overlap with ground-truth objects.

3. Region Proposal Network (RPN): This method is
a part of the Faster R-CNN architecture and uses
a deep neural network to predict objectness scores
and bounding box coordinates for a set of anchor
boxes placed at various locations and scales.

The relevant mathematical equations for computing
bounding box proposals depend on the specific
method used. For example, selective search uses
various similarity measures to merge regions,
while EdgeBoxes and RPN use convolutional neural
networks to predict objectness scores and bounding
box coordinates.

In the case of 3D bounding boxes, the process is
similar but involves localizing objects in a 3D
space instead of a 2D image plane. This typically
involves using techniques such as LiDAR-based
point cloud processing or stereo vision to
generate 3D data, followed by applying object
detection algorithms similar to those used for 2D
images. The relevant mathematical equations in
this case may involve working with 3D coordinates
and geometry to compute the size, orientation, and
location of the bounding box relative to the
object of interest.

12> what are some of the relevant mathematical
transformations? can we compute bounding boxes in
parallel?

There are several mathematical transformations
involved in computing bounding box proposals,
including scaling, rotation, and translation. For
example, to generate bounding boxes at different
scales, the input image is resized to different
sizes, and the regions of interest are then
extracted from each resized image.

Rotation can also be used to generate bounding box
proposals for objects that are rotated in the
image. Translation is used to generate bounding
boxes for objects that are not centered in the
image.

As for parallel computation, it is possible to
compute bounding box proposals in parallel by
splitting the input image into multiple patches
and computing the proposals for each patch
independently. This approach is commonly used in
object detection algorithms to speed up the
computation. However, it can introduce additional
challenges such as handling object instances that
span multiple patches.

13> could you describe non-maximum supression as
well as soft nms?
