# caffe2-serverquantize

## Description:

This Rust crate is a work-in-progress translation
of the Caffe2 operator library from C++ to
Rust. Some of the function bodies are still in the
process of being translated. The crate contains
operators for server quantization of neural
networks, including fully connected and
convolutional layers, elementwise operations, and
pooling layers.

The mathematical ideas behind the operators
include:

- Quantization: transforming continuous-valued
  weights and activations into discrete values to
  reduce memory requirements and computational
  complexity.

- Minimization of quantization error: finding the
  quantization parameters that minimize the error
  between the quantized and original values.

- Low-precision arithmetic: performing
  computations with reduced numerical precision to
  further reduce memory requirements and
  computational complexity.

- Normalization: scaling weights or activations to
  have unit variance or to be within a certain
  range.

- Pooling: downsampling a feature map by applying
  a function (such as max or average) over
  non-overlapping regions of the map.

- Elementwise operations: applying a function
  (such as addition or multiplication) to
  corresponding elements of two or more tensors.

## Relevant Mathematical Equations:

### Quantization:

The quantization function maps continuous values
x to discrete values x_q:

x_q = round(x / delta) * delta,

where delta is the quantization step size.

### Minimization of quantization error:

One approach to minimizing the quantization error
is to choose the quantization step size delta that
minimizes the mean squared error (MSE) between the
quantized values x_q and the original values x:

delta = argmin(delta') {1/N * sum[(x - round(x / delta') * delta')^2]},

where N is the number of values being quantized.

### Low-precision arithmetic:

Low-precision arithmetic operations involve
computing with reduced numerical precision, such
as using 8-bit integers instead of 32-bit floats.

### Normalization:

One form of normalization is Batch Normalization,
which scales and shifts activations by learned
parameters, so that they have unit variance and
are zero-centered:

y = (x - E[x]) / sqrt(Var[x] + eps) * gamma + beta,

where x is the input, y is the output, E[x] and
Var[x] are the mean and variance of the input over
the batch dimension, eps is a small constant for
numerical stability, and gamma and beta are
learned scaling and shifting parameters.

### Pooling:

One form of pooling is max pooling, which
downsamples a feature map by selecting the maximum
value in non-overlapping regions of the map:

y_{i,j,k} = max_{u,v,w} x_{i+s*u, j+s*v, k+s*w},

where x is the input feature map, y is the output
feature map, s is the stride, and u, v, w are
indices over the spatial dimensions.

### Elementwise operations:

An example of an elementwise operation is
addition, which adds corresponding elements of two
tensors:

y = x_1 + x_2.

42> what is server quantization?

Server quantization is a technique for compressing
and optimizing deep neural networks (DNNs) to run
efficiently on servers, which are typically
equipped with CPUs rather than GPUs or specialized
hardware. The goal of server quantization is to
reduce the memory and computational requirements
of DNNs while maintaining or improving their
accuracy. This is achieved by quantizing the
weights and activations of the DNN to use
lower-precision data types, which reduces the
memory footprint and enables faster computations
on CPUs.

Server quantization typically involves several
steps, such as determining the optimal bit width
for the quantized weights and activations,
computing scaling factors to preserve the dynamic
range of the data, and adjusting the network
architecture to accommodate the
quantization. Various techniques such as
quantization-aware training, per-channel
quantization, and sparsity are used to further
optimize the quantized networks.

Server quantization is especially useful for
large-scale DNNs deployed on cloud servers, which
require efficient use of computing resources and
energy consumption. It can also enable more
widespread deployment of DNNs on devices with
limited computational resources, such as
smartphones and Internet of Things (IoT) devices.

43> how is this different than regular
quantization?

Regular quantization is a technique used to reduce
the memory requirements and increase the
computational efficiency of neural networks by
representing their parameters using fewer bits
than the standard floating-point
representation. In regular quantization, the
parameters of the neural network are quantized to
lower precision values, typically using
fixed-point or integer arithmetic, which can lead
to some loss of accuracy compared to the original
floating-point representation.

Server quantization, on the other hand, is a more
advanced form of quantization that is designed to
minimize the accuracy loss associated with regular
quantization. In server quantization, the
quantization parameters are learned by minimizing
a certain objective function, such as the
Kullback-Leibler divergence between the
distribution of the original weights and the
distribution of the quantized weights. This
learning process allows the quantization
parameters to be tailored specifically to the
weights of the neural network being quantized,
leading to improved accuracy compared to regular
quantization.

Server quantization can also include techniques
such as weight clipping, which limits the range of
the weights before quantization, and scaling,
which applies a multiplication factor to the
weights to ensure that they fall within the range
of the quantization. These additional techniques
can further improve the accuracy of the quantized
model.

Overall, server quantization is a more advanced
and sophisticated form of quantization that is
designed to minimize the accuracy loss associated
with regular quantization, making it a powerful
tool for optimizing neural networks for deployment
in production environments.

44> which other techniques apply to this
quantization method?

Some other techniques that apply to server
quantization include:

1. L1 and L2 Minimization: These techniques
   involve minimizing the L1 or L2 norm of the
   difference between the original weights and the
   quantized weights. L1 minimization is often
   used for sparse models where many weights are
   zero, while L2 minimization is more commonly
   used for dense models.

2. Kullback-Leibler (KL) Divergence Minimization:
   This technique involves minimizing the
   Kullback-Leibler divergence between the
   original weight distribution and the quantized
   weight distribution. This can help preserve the
   statistical properties of the original model.

3. Histogram-based Quantization: This technique
   involves creating a histogram of the weight
   distribution and quantizing the weights based
   on the histogram. This can help ensure that the
   quantization levels are distributed more evenly
   across the weight range.

4. Dynamic Quantization: This technique involves
   quantizing the weights dynamically at runtime,
   rather than pre-quantizing them during
   training. This can allow for more adaptive
   quantization and may result in better
   performance on some models.
