# Caffe2op-Gather

## Description

Caffe2op-Gather is a Rust crate that provides
mathematical operations for DSP and machine
learning computations. In particular, it provides
three main operators: BatchGatherGradient,
GatherFused, and GatherRangesToDenseOp.

The BatchGatherGradient operator computes the
gradients for a BatchGather operator in the
forward pass, given the inputs and the gradient of
the output. The operator takes as input a tensor
of data to gather, a tensor of indices, and the
gradient of the output tensor. It returns the
gradient of the input data tensor.

The GatherFused operator performs a row-wise
gather operation with fused operations in a single
step. It takes as input a tensor of data to
gather, a tensor of indices, and a rank parameter
that determines the number of dimensions to
gather. The operator returns the gathered tensor.

The GatherRangesToDenseOp operator converts
a tensor of sparse ranges to a dense tensor. It
takes as input a tensor of indices and a tensor of
ranges, and returns a dense tensor. This operator
is particularly useful for sparse to dense
operations.

This crate also provides several helper functions,
such as FeedBlob, FetchBlob, ResetWorkspace,
argsHelper, astype, and others, to streamline the
workflow of data processing and manipulation.

## Usage

This crate is intended for use in DSP and machine
learning applications that require gather
operations on tensors. The operators provided by
this crate are efficient and memory optimized, and
can be used to improve the performance of
workflows that require sparse to dense operations
or gather operations with fused row-wise
mathematics.

## Example

```rust
use caffe2op_gather::{GatherFused, GatherRangesToDenseOp};

fn main() {
    // Example usage of GatherFused operator
    let data = vec![1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0];
    let indices = vec![2, 1, 0, 2, 0, 1];
    let rank = 2;
    let gathered = GatherFused::gather_fused(&data, &indices, rank);
    println!("{:?}", gathered);

    // Example usage of GatherRangesToDenseOp operator
    let indices = vec![0, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3];
    let ranges = vec![0, 3, 4, 7];
    let dense = GatherRangesToDenseOp::gather_ranges_to_dense(&indices, &ranges);
    println!("{:?}", dense);
}
```

25> cool thanks! could you please describe the
gather operation in more detail? what are some
examples from mathematics and physics where it is
useful?

Sure, I'd be happy to provide more detail about
the gather operation and some examples of its use
in mathematics and physics.

The gather operation is a common operation in
computer science and is often used in machine
learning and signal processing. It is used to
gather elements from a source array or tensor
using index values from another array or
tensor. In other words, it collects a subset of
elements from the source tensor, based on the
values of the index tensor.

Mathematically, the gather operation can be
expressed as:

```
output[i] = input[index[i]]
```

where `input` is the source tensor, `index` is the
tensor of index values, `output` is the resulting
tensor with the gathered elements, and `i` is the
index along the gather axis. The gather operation
is typically performed along a specified axis of
the source tensor.

Physically, the gather operation is useful in many
fields. For example, in astronomy, it is used to
gather data from telescopes or other astronomical
instruments at different locations or at different
times. The gathered data can then be used to
create composite images or analyze phenomena such
as gravitational waves.

In physics, the gather operation is used to
collect data from particle detectors, such as the
Large Hadron Collider, which collects data from
particle collisions. The gathered data can be used
to study the properties and behavior of subatomic
particles.

Overall, the gather operation is a powerful tool
for collecting and analyzing data, and it has many
applications in various fields of science and
engineering.

26> so, it encapsulates the full variety of memory
access patterns into the source tensor. is that
correct?

Yes, that's correct. The gather operation allows
for a flexible way to access memory by indexing
into it with arbitrary indices. It can be used to
encapsulate a variety of memory access patterns,
including non-linear and irregular ones. This
flexibility makes it a useful tool in a variety of
domains, such as computer vision, natural language
processing, and scientific computing.

27> so, does the performance vary based on the
indices selected?

Yes, the performance of the gather operation can
vary based on the indices selected. In particular,
the performance can be affected by the access
pattern of the indices, and the degree of
coalescing that is possible during memory access.

If the indices are regularly spaced and accessed
in a contiguous fashion, then the memory accesses
can be coalesced, leading to improved
performance. However, if the indices are accessed
in a random or irregular fashion, then the memory
accesses may not be coalesced, leading to reduced
performance.

Additionally, the performance can be impacted by
the size of the indices tensor, as well as the
size of the data tensor. If the indices tensor is
very large relative to the data tensor, then there
may be a higher overhead associated with computing
the gather operation. Similarly, if the data
tensor is very large, then there may be more
potential for memory access issues, such as cache
misses or thrashing.

28> could you write some performance equations for
it?

Certainly! Here are some potential performance
equations for the Gather operator:

Let:
- $N$ be the total number of elements in the input tensor
- $M$ be the number of indices being gathered
- $D$ be the dimensionality of the input tensor
- $P$ be the number of elements per index
  (i.e. the size of the slices being gathered)

Then, assuming ideal caching and memory access
patterns, we could estimate the performance of the
Gather operator as follows:

- The total number of bytes read from the input
  tensor would be $N\cdot b$, where $b$ is the
  number of bytes per element in the input tensor.

- The total number of bytes written to the output
  tensor would be $M\cdot P\cdot b$, where $P\cdot
  b$ is the number of bytes per slice in the
  output tensor.

- The total number of cache misses (i.e. times
  when data needs to be fetched from main memory)
  would depend on the size of the CPU cache, the
  number of cache lines, and the memory access
  pattern. However, we could estimate a lower
  bound on the number of cache misses as $M\cdot
  \log_2(N)$, assuming that the indices being
  gathered are uniformly distributed.

- The total number of floating-point operations
  required would be negligible, since Gather only
  involves indexing and copying elements.


It's worth noting that actual performance can be
affected by many other factors as well, including
the size of the input tensor, the size of the
output tensor, the CPU architecture, and the
specifics of the memory access pattern. These
equations should be taken as rough estimates
rather than precise measurements.

29> how can the gather operator be parametrized?

The Gather operator can be parametrized by the
following inputs:

1. `input`: the input tensor from which to gather
   values.

2. `indices`: the indices used to gather values
   from the input tensor.

3. `axis`: the axis along which to gather
   values. By default, the operator gathers values
   along the first axis (axis 0).

4. `batch_dims`: the number of batch
   dimensions. These are the dimensions of the
   input tensor that are not to be gathered over.


In addition, some implementations of the Gather
operator may support additional parameters for
performance optimization, such as memory layouts
and memory access patterns.

30> what about inputs and outputs? what are they
and what are their sizes? are there any optional
inputs or outputs?

The gather operator takes two inputs: a source
tensor and an indices tensor. The source tensor is
the tensor from which values are gathered, and the
indices tensor specifies which values to
gather. The indices tensor must have an integral
data type, and its shape must be broadcastable to
the shape of the output tensor. The output tensor
has the same shape as the indices tensor, and its
dtype is the same as the dtype of the source
tensor.

There are no optional inputs or outputs for the
basic gather operator. However, there are
variations of the gather operator that have
additional inputs and outputs. For example, the
gather_nd operator allows for gathering from
higher-dimensional tensors using multi-dimensional
indices, and the scatter_nd operator allows for
scatter updates tol a tensor using
multi-dimensional indices.^R

31> cool! how do the operator parameters effect
the performance equations?

The operator parameters can significantly affect
the performance of the gather operator. The most
significant parameter is the number of indices
that need to be gathered, which affects the number
of memory accesses required. The size of the input
tensor and the output tensor can also affect the
performance, as larger tensors may require more
memory accesses and more compute time. The number
of dimensions in the input tensor and the output
tensor can also affect the performance, as
higher-dimensional tensors require more memory
accesses and more compute time.

Additionally, the data type of the input and
output tensors can also affect the performance, as
different data types may require different amounts
of memory or may have different computational
requirements. The hardware platform used to
execute the operator can also impact performance,
as different architectures have different memory
hierarchies and computational capabilities.

Therefore, the operator parameters should be
carefully selected to optimize the performance for
a particular use case. This can involve tuning the
batch size, the number of indices, the tensor
sizes, the data types, and other parameters to
achieve the best performance.

32> how does this operator interact with the
hardware layer?

The Gather operator interacts with the hardware
layer by efficiently utilizing the memory
hierarchy of the underlying hardware. Since the
performance of the Gather operation is often
limited by memory access latencies, it is
important to minimize the number of memory
accesses required to compute the output.

The Gather operation is typically implemented
using vectorized instructions and optimized memory
access patterns. For example, on modern CPUs, the
Gather operation can take advantage of SIMD
(Single Instruction, Multiple Data) instructions,
which can operate on multiple data elements in
parallel. The operator can also take advantage of
hardware prefetching, which can reduce the latency
of memory accesses by bringing data into the cache
before it is needed.

On GPUs, the Gather operation can be implemented
using specialized hardware that is optimized for
data parallelism. The operator can take advantage
of the high memory bandwidth of GPUs to
efficiently read the input tensor and perform the
gather operation.

Overall, the performance of the Gather operator
can be highly dependent on the hardware
architecture, as well as the specific
implementation of the operator. Therefore, it is
important to optimize the implementation of the
operator for the target hardware in order to
achieve the best performance.


