## Caffe2op-elu

A Rust crate that provides an implementation of
the ELU (Exponential Linear Unit) activation
function, a commonly used function in deep neural
networks for non-linearity.

**Note: This crate is currently being translated from C++ to Rust, and some function bodies may still be in the process of translation.**

ELU, or Exponential Linear Unit, is a type of
activation function used in neural networks. It is
a non-linear function that can introduce
non-linearity into the network and is useful for
modeling complex relationships in data. The ELU
activation function is defined as:

ELU(x) = { x if x >= 0
         { alpha * (exp(x) - 1) if x < 0

where alpha is a hyperparameter that controls the
slope of the function for negative input
values. The advantage of ELU over other activation
functions, such as ReLU (rectified linear unit),
is that it can avoid the "dying ReLU" problem,
which occurs when the neurons in the network
become inactive and stop learning. This can happen
when the input to a ReLU neuron is negative and
the neuron's output is zero.

ELU addresses this problem by having a non-zero
gradient for negative input values, which helps to
keep the neurons active and allows them to
continue learning. This makes ELU a good choice
for deep neural networks, where the number of
layers is large and the problem of inactive
neurons can be more prevalent.

In terms of usage, ELU can be applied to any layer
of a neural network that uses an activation
function. It can be used in convolutional neural
networks for image classification tasks, in
recurrent neural networks for natural language
processing tasks, and in other types of neural
networks for a variety of machine learning
applications.

To summarize, ELU is a non-linear activation
function that helps to prevent the "dying ReLU"
problem in deep neural networks by introducing
a non-zero gradient for negative input values. It
can be applied to any layer of a neural network
and is useful for a variety of machine learning
tasks.
