# caffe2op-lppool

## Lp Pooling Operator

The Lp Pooling Operator is a mathematical operator
used in digital signal processing and machine
learning computations for reducing the
dimensionality of feature maps in convolutional
neural networks. It is a generalization of the
traditional max and average pooling operations.

Given an input feature map X of size (N, C, H, W),
the Lp Pooling Operator computes the output Y of
size (N, C, H', W') as follows:

Y[i, j, h, w] = (1/k) * ∑_(p,q ∈ P_i) (|X[i, j, p, q]|^p)^(1/p)

where P_i is the set of indices for the pooling
region at position (i, j), k is the number of
elements in P_i, and p is a positive real number
representing the Lp norm used for pooling.

The Lp Pooling Operator is implemented in Rust as
the LpPoolOp struct, with support for both NCHW
and NHWC input formats. The LpPoolGradientOp
struct computes the gradient of the Lp Pooling
Operator.

## Usage

To use the Lp Pooling Operator in your Rust
program, you can register it as a CPU operator
using the `register_cpu_operator` function. Then,
you can run the Lp Pooling Operator on an input
feature map using either
`run_f32_on_cpu_device_with_order_nchw` for NCHW
format or `run_f32_on_cpu_device_with_order_nhwc`
for NHWC format. The Lp Pooling Operator is also
provided as a functor through the LpPoolFunctor
struct.

To compute the gradient of the Lp Pooling
Operator, you can use the `get_gradient_defs`
function to get the gradient definitions, and then
register the gradient using the
`register_gradient` function. Finally, you can
compute the gradient using the GetPoolGradient
function.

## Example

An example of using the Lp Pooling Operator in
Rust is provided in the lp_pool_op_example
file. This example demonstrates how to use the Lp
Pooling Operator to perform L2 pooling on an input
feature map.

28> what is Lp Pooling?

Lp pooling is a generalization of the commonly
used max pooling and average pooling operations in
convolutional neural networks. In max pooling, the
maximum value of each local region in the input
feature map is taken, whereas in average pooling,
the mean value is computed. Lp pooling is a more
flexible pooling method that allows the use of
different values of p in the Lp norm.

In Lp pooling, a sliding window is applied to the
input feature map, and for each window, the Lp
norm of the enclosed values is computed. The
result is a pooled feature map with reduced
spatial dimensions, where each value is a scalar
obtained by taking the Lp norm of the
corresponding window in the input feature map.

The Lp pooling operation can be formulated
mathematically as follows:

Given an input feature map X of size (N, C, H, W)
and a pooling window of size (H_k, W_k), the Lp
pooling operation computes a pooled feature map
Y of size (N, C, H_out, W_out), where:

Y(n, c, i, j) = (1/H_k*W_k * sum_(x=i to i+H_k-1) sum_(y=j to j+W_k-1) abs(X(n, c, x, y))^p)^(1/p)

where p is a user-defined parameter that
determines the degree of pooling. When p=1, the L1
norm is used, which results in a sparse
representation, whereas when p=2, the L2 norm is
used, which results in a dense representation.

29> so, we use the Lp norm to reduce the size of
the feature space. is that correct? how can we
measure its effectiveness? what sort of
information is propagated? what sort of
information is pruned? how do these answers depend
on the choice of p?

Yes, that's correct! Lp pooling reduces the size
of the feature space by summarizing a set of
values using the Lp norm.

To measure the effectiveness of Lp pooling, we can
look at how well the pooled features capture the
important information from the original
features. This is typically done by evaluating the
performance of a machine learning model trained on
the pooled features compared to a model trained on
the original features.

The information that is propagated through Lp
pooling depends on the value of p. For p > 1, the
pooling operation tends to emphasize larger values
in the input, while for p < 1, it tends to
emphasize smaller values. This means that for
p > 1, the pooling operation is more likely to
preserve features with strong activations, while
for p < 1, it is more likely to preserve features
with weak activations.

The information that is pruned by Lp pooling is
typically the fine-grained details of the input,
since the pooling operation replaces a set of
values with a summary statistic. However, the
degree of pruning depends on the value of p. For
p = 1, the pooling operation is relatively sparse,
and may preserve more of the fine-grained details
than for other values of p.

In summary, the choice of p in Lp pooling affects
which features are preserved and which are pruned,
and this can have an impact on the performance of
machine learning models trained on the pooled
features. The optimal value of p will depend on
the specific application and the characteristics
of the input data.

30> how do we choose the window size?

The choice of window size in Lp pooling depends on
the specific application and the size and nature
of the input data. Generally, the window size
should be small enough to capture relevant local
features in the data, but not so small that it
loses important information.

For example, in image processing applications, the
window size may depend on the size and resolution
of the input image, as well as the desired level
of detail in the pooled output. In natural
language processing applications, the window size
may depend on the length of the input text and the
desired level of abstraction in the pooled output.

The window size can also be determined
experimentally, by trying different window sizes
and evaluating the performance of the pooling
operation on a validation set.

31> what are some examples we see in practice?

In practice, the window size for Lp pooling is
often chosen empirically based on the problem at
hand and the size of the input data. For example,
in image recognition tasks, common window sizes
for max pooling are 2x2 or 3x3, while in speech
recognition tasks, a common window size for mean
pooling is around 100-200ms. In some cases,
multiple pooling layers with different window
sizes may be used to capture information at
different scales. The choice of window size can
also depend on the architecture of the neural
network being used, as well as the available
computational resources.

32> is there anything else you think i should know
about lp pooling?

One important consideration when using Lp pooling
is the choice of the Lp norm parameter p. In
practice, the most commonly used values for p are
1 and 2, which correspond to the Manhattan
distance (L1 norm) and Euclidean distance (L2
norm), respectively. However, other values of
p can also be useful in certain situations.

Another important consideration is the choice of
the pooling function itself. While Lp pooling is
one option, there are other types of pooling
functions that can be used instead, such as max
pooling and average pooling. Each type of pooling
function has its own strengths and weaknesses, and
the choice of pooling function will depend on the
specific application and the goals of the model.

Finally, it's worth noting that pooling operations
can lead to a loss of spatial information, which
can be important in certain applications such as
image recognition. To address this issue, some
models use techniques such as strided convolutions
and dilated convolutions to reduce the spatial
resolution of the feature maps more gradually,
while still allowing for information to be
preserved at each stage of the network.

33> how is this operator parametrized? what are
its inputs and outputs? are there optional inputs
and outputs? what is its memory footprint?

The Lp Pooling operator takes as input a tensor of
shape (batch_size, channels, height, width) and
outputs a tensor of shape (batch_size, channels,
out_height, out_width) where `out_height` and
`out_width` depend on the window size, padding,
and stride parameters.

The operator is typically parameterized by the
following inputs:

- `input`: the input tensor of shape (batch_size,
  channels, height, width)

- `p`: the value of p used in the Lp norm

- `kernel_shape`: the size of the pooling window,
  typically a tuple or list of two integers
  representing the height and width of the window

- `stride`: the stride to use for the pooling
  operation, also a tuple or list of two integers

- `padding`: the type of padding to use, either
  'valid' or 'same'

- `count_include_pad`: a boolean indicating
  whether to include padding in the normalization
  of the Lp norm

The output of the operator is the pooled tensor of
shape (batch_size, channels, out_height,
out_width).

The memory footprint of the operator depends on
the size of the input tensor, the window size, and
the data type used to store the tensor. Typically,
the memory footprint is proportional to the
product of these three factors.

34> could you show me an example calculation of
memory footprint?

Sure! Let's take an example of a 2D input tensor
with dimensions `[batch_size, channels, height, width]` 
of size `(2, 3, 4, 4)`, where each element is a 32-bit float.

To calculate the memory footprint of this tensor,
we first need to determine the total number of
elements. This can be calculated as:

```
total_elements = batch_size * channels * height * width
               = 2 * 3 * 4 * 4
               = 96
```

Next, we need to determine the memory footprint of
each element. Since each element is a 32-bit
float, its size in bytes is 4. Therefore, the
memory footprint of the entire tensor is:

```
memory_footprint = total_elements * size_of_each_element
                 = 96 * 4
                 = 384 bytes
```

So, the memory footprint of our 2D input tensor is
384 bytes.

35> is this the memory footprint calculation for
the lpnorm operator?

No, the previous calculation was for a general
tensor of size `(n1, n2, ..., nk)` of `float32`
elements, assuming a memory layout in row-major
order.

For the LpNorm operator, the memory footprint
would depend on the number of elements being
pooled, the size of the pooling window, and the
value of `p`.

Assuming we are pooling over a single dimension
(e.g., a 1D signal), and using a window size of
`w`, the memory footprint of the LpNorm operator
would be:

- Input tensor: `n` elements, each of size
  `float32`, for a total of `4*n` bytes.

- Output tensor: `n-w+1` elements, each of size
  `float32`, for a total of `4*(n-w+1)` bytes.

- Temporary buffer for computing the norm: `w`
  elements, each of size `float32`, for a total of
  `4*w` bytes.

Therefore, the total memory footprint of the
LpNorm operator would be `4*(n + n-w+1 + w)
= 4*(n+1)`, assuming no optional
inputs/outputs. This means that the memory usage
scales linearly with the input size.

36> please show me an example calculation of
memory footprint for the LpPooling operator

Sure! Here's an example calculation of the memory
footprint for the LpPooling operator:

Suppose we have an input tensor of shape
`(batch_size, channel_size, height, width) = (4,
3, 32, 32)`, and we want to perform 2x2 L2 pooling
with stride 2, resulting in an output tensor of
shape `(batch_size, channel_size, height // 2,
width // 2) = (4, 3, 16, 16)`.

Each element of the output tensor is calculated by
taking a 2x2 window of the input tensor and
computing its L2 norm, so we need to allocate
space for each window.

The total number of windows is 
`(output_height * output_width) = (16 * 16) = 256`. 
Each window contains 
`channel_size * window_size = 3 * 4 = 12`
elements. Since each element is a 32-bit float,
the total memory footprint for the windows is:

```
256 * 12 * 4 = 12,288 bytes
```

In addition to the output tensor, we also need
to^[ allocate space for the indices of the maximum
elements in each window, which we will need for
backpropagation. For L2 pooling, we don't need to
store these indices explicitly, so the memory
footprint is zero. However, for other types of
pooling (such as max pooling), we would need to
allocate additional space for the indices.

The memory footprint for the LpPooling operator
would also depend on the size of the batch and the
choice of the pooling parameters (such as the
window size, stride, and value of p). This example
is just one possible calculation.
