## `caffe2op-find`

Crate for finding the `FindOp` operator,
a mathematical operation used in DSP and machine
learning computations.

The `FindOp` operator can be used to efficiently
search for a set of `Needles` within a larger
dataset. It operates by taking a `Placeholder`
input representing the larger dataset and an
`IndexGet` input representing the `Needles`, and
outputting a set of indices corresponding to the
locations of the `Needles` within the dataset.

This operation is particularly useful in
applications where a large dataset needs to be
searched for a small set of values, such as in
image recognition or speech processing. The
`FindOp` operator can significantly reduce the
computational cost of this task compared to
brute-force methods.

The `caffe2op-find` crate also provides
functionality for modifying and inserting
`Needles` into the dataset. The `inserts` and
`modifies` functions can be used to efficiently
update the dataset with new or updated `Needles`.

Overall, the `caffe2op-find` crate provides
a powerful set of tools for efficiently searching,
modifying, and outputting data in machine learning
and DSP applications.

2> !file caffe2op-finddup.query

## `caffe2op-finddup`

Crate for finding duplicate elements in a dataset
using the `FindDuplicateElementsOp` operator,
a mathematical operation used in DSP and machine
learning computations.

The `FindDuplicateElementsOp` takes a dataset as
input and outputs the indices of the duplicate
elements within that dataset. This operator can be
useful in various applications where duplicate
data can cause issues, such as in data
preprocessing for machine learning algorithms or
in data deduplication.

The `caffe2op-finddup` crate provides a convenient
implementation of the `FindDuplicateElementsOp`
using the `FeedBlob` and `FetchBlob` functions to
input and output data. The `ResetWorkspace`
function can be used to reset the state of the
workspace between calls to the operator.

The `astype` function is provided to cast the
input data to a specific data type, while the
`dict` parameter can be used to specify additional
options for the operation. The `dupIndices` and
`dupSize` variables are outputted by the operator
to give the indices and size of the duplicate
elements found. The `retVal` variable can be used
to retrieve the output indices.

Overall, the `caffe2op-finddup` crate provides
a powerful set of tools for efficiently finding
and outputting duplicate elements in datasets,
with applications in machine learning, data
preprocessing, and data deduplication.
