## caffe2-ideep

This Rust crate is part of the Caffe2 operator
library translation and provides an implementation
of the IDEEP backend.

The implementation is currently in the process of
being translated from C++ to Rust and some
function bodies may be incomplete.

This crate contains a variety of IDEEP operators,
such as `IDEEPConvOp`, `IDEEPConvTransposeOp`,
`IDEEPSpatialBNOp`, `IDEEPFullyConnectedOp`,
`IDEEPPoolOp`, and many others. Additionally,
there are various functions for registering and
running IDEEP operators on specific devices, as
well as functions for copying data between CPU and
IDEEP tensors.

This crate is intended to provide a performant
implementation of these operators for use in deep
learning applications. The IDEEP backend can be
particularly useful for training on CPUs, and this
crate provides a Rust implementation of the
backend for easy integration into Rust-based
projects.

Note that some function bodies may still be in the
process of translation, so not all functionality
may be available.

53> what is ideep?

Intel Deep Learning Extension for Python (iDeep)
is a software library developed by Intel that
enables high performance deep learning on Intel
CPUs. It provides optimized deep learning
primitives that can be used to build and train
neural networks. The `caffe2-ideep` crate you
mentioned is a Rust translation of the Caffe2
operator library, with added support for iDeep
primitives to accelerate deep learning operations
on Intel CPUs.

54> could you teach me about it? how does it work?
why would we choose to use it, for examples? what
does it do? what are its strengths?

Intel Deep Neural Network Library (iDeep) is
a deep learning library developed by Intel that
provides high-performance deep neural networks
inference acceleration on Intel CPUs. It supports
the most popular deep learning frameworks
including Caffe2, TensorFlow, MXNet, and PyTorch.

iDeep optimizes the execution of deep neural
networks by using low-level hardware instructions
provided by modern CPUs, such as Intel Advanced
Vector Extensions (AVX), and by leveraging
efficient algorithms specifically designed for the
Intel architecture.

One of the main strengths of iDeep is its ability
to execute deep neural networks efficiently on
CPUs, which can provide a significant advantage
over GPUs in some scenarios. This is especially
true for data center and cloud deployments where
CPU-based systems are often preferred for their
cost-effectiveness, scalability, and ease of
deployment and management.

Another strength of iDeep is its integration with
the popular deep learning frameworks. This makes
it easy to incorporate iDeep into existing deep
learning workflows without significant changes to
code or infrastructure.

Overall, iDeep provides a powerful and flexible
solution for executing deep neural networks on
modern CPUs, and can be a valuable tool for
researchers, data scientists, and engineers
working on deep learning applications.

55> what are the relevant api entrypoints into
ideep and how do we use them?

The iDeep library provides APIs for performing
deep learning operations on CPU, GPU and FPGA
devices. Here are some of the relevant API
entrypoints into iDeep:

1. `ideep::tensor`: This is the basic data
   structure in iDeep which represents
   a tensor. The tensor is used to store and
   manipulate multi-dimensional arrays in
   a contiguous block of memory.

2. `ideep::algorithm`: This is the class which
   provides APIs for deep learning operations such
   as convolution, pooling, batch normalization,
   etc.

3. `ideep::primitive_desc`: This is the class
   which represents the descriptor of a primitive
   operation in iDeep. A primitive is a basic
   building block of deep learning operations, and
   its descriptor contains all the necessary
   information to create and execute the
   operation.

4. `ideep::stream`: This is the class which
   represents a device stream for executing
   operations asynchronously on a device. A stream
   can be used to execute multiple operations
   concurrently on a device.

5. `ideep::engine`: This is the class which
   represents a device engine for executing
   operations. An engine provides a set of compute
   devices, and is responsible for creating and
   managing device streams.

To use iDeep, you would typically start by
creating a tensor object using the `ideep::tensor`
class. You would then create an algorithm object
to perform the desired deep learning operation,
and specify the input and output tensors for the
operation. You would then create a primitive
descriptor object to describe the operation, and
use this descriptor to create a primitive object
which can be executed on a device. Finally, you
would create a stream object to execute the
primitive operation asynchronously on a device.

Overall, iDeep provides a powerful and flexible
set of APIs for performing deep learning
operations on a variety of devices, making it
a popular choice for high-performance deep
learning applications.

56> thanks! could we keep drilling down into the
details?

Sure, what specific aspects of the IDEEP API would
you like to learn more about?

57> let's learn about ideep::tensor first

`ideep::tensor` is a key class in the Intel Deep
Neural Network Acceleration (IDeep) library. It
represents a multi-dimensional array of elements,
similar to the `numpy` array in Python or the
`torch.Tensor` in PyTorch.

The `ideep::tensor` class provides a variety of
methods for manipulating and performing operations
on tensors. These include methods for accessing
the shape of the tensor, setting and getting
individual elements, performing element-wise
arithmetic operations, and more.

One of the key strengths of `ideep::tensor` is its
ability to perform these operations efficiently on
hardware that supports Intel's AVX-512 instruction
set. This allows for significant speedups over
traditional CPU-based computations.

Here is an example of how to create an
`ideep::tensor` object in Rust:

```rust
use ideep::*;

let shape = vec![2, 3];
let data = vec![1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0];
let x = tensor::f32::from_data(shape, &data).unwrap();
```

In this example, we create a 2x3 tensor with the
given data. The `tensor::f32::from_data` function
is used to create a new `ideep::tensor` object
from the given shape and data. If successful, it
returns an `Option<tensor::f32>`, which we unwrap
using the `.unwrap()` method.

We can then access the data and shape of the
tensor using the `.data()` and `.dims()` methods:

```rust
let tensor_data = x.data().to_vec();
let tensor_shape = x.dims().to_vec();
println!("Data: {:?}", tensor_data);
println!("Shape: {:?}", tensor_shape);
```

This will output:

```
Data: [1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0]
Shape: [2, 3]
```

We can also perform element-wise arithmetic
operations on tensors:

```rust
let y = tensor::f32::from_data(shape, &data).unwrap();
let z = x + y;
println!("Result: {:?}", z.data().to_vec());
```

This will output:

```
Result: [2.0, 4.0, 6.0, 8.0, 10.0, 12.0]
```

In this example, we create another `ideep::tensor`
object `y` with the same shape and data as `x`,
and then add them together using the `+`
operator. The resulting tensor `z` contains the
element-wise sum of `x` and `y`.

This is just a simple example of what is possible
with `ideep::tensor`. The library provides many
more operations and methods for working with
tensors, making it a powerful tool for deep
learning applications.

58> interesting, thanks! what is useful/unique
about the intel avx-512 instruction set?

The Intel AVX-512 (Advanced Vector Extensions 512)
is an instruction set extension that was
introduced with Intel's Xeon Phi Knights Landing
and Skylake-X CPUs. It offers a significant
performance boost to certain types of
compute-intensive workloads, particularly in deep
learning and other machine learning applications.

The main advantage of AVX-512 is that it can
perform vector operations on larger registers (512
bits, hence the name) compared to previous AVX
instruction sets (256 bits). This means that
larger amounts of data can be processed at once,
leading to faster computation times. Additionally,
AVX-512 provides support for new operations that
were not available in previous instruction sets,
such as fused multiply-add (FMA) operations, which
can be used to speed up convolution operations
commonly used in deep learning.

Overall, the AVX-512 instruction set can
significantly improve performance for certain
types of compute-intensive workloads, particularly
those that involve large amounts of data
processing, making it a valuable tool for deep
learning applications.

59> so, we can use 512 bits, do we typically pack
various dimensionalities or tile sizes into this
amount of space? what are some examples?

Yes, packing various dimensionalities or tile
sizes into the 512 bits of the AVX-512 registers
can be useful for performance optimization in deep
learning applications. One common technique is to
use the registers to hold multiple elements of the
same dimension of a tensor, so that multiple
operations can be applied to those elements
simultaneously. For example, if we have
a convolution operation that operates on a 3x3
tile of an image, we could load 8 rows of the
image into a single 512-bit register, so that the
convolution operation could be applied to those
8 rows in parallel.

Another technique is to use the registers to hold
multiple elements of different dimensions of
a tensor, so that operations that involve those
elements can be performed efficiently. For
example, if we have a matrix multiplication
operation that involves multiplying a large matrix
by a small matrix, we could load the small matrix
into a 512-bit register and use it to perform
a series of vector-matrix multiplications with the
large matrix.

There are many other ways to use the AVX-512
instruction set to optimize performance in deep
learning applications, and the specific techniques
used will depend on the particular operations
being performed and the structure of the tensors
involved.

60> this is a cpu architecture correct? next,
let's talk about ideep::algorithm

Yes, AVX-512 is a CPU architecture.

Moving on to ideep::algorithm, this is a module in
the Intel Deep Learning Library (iDeep) that
provides various algorithms for deep learning
operations. It provides optimized implementations
of the most commonly used neural network
algorithms, such as convolution, pooling, and
fully connected layers.

Some of the algorithms provided by
ideep::algorithm include:

- Convolution: This algorithm performs convolution
  of an input tensor with a set of filters, where
  the filters are learned during training. It
  provides optimized implementations for 1D, 2D,
  and 3D convolution.

- Pooling: This algorithm performs max or average
  pooling of an input tensor. It provides
  optimized implementations for 1D, 2D, and 3D
  pooling.

- Batch Normalization: This algorithm performs
  batch normalization of an input tensor to help
  improve the performance of deep neural networks.

- Fully Connected: This algorithm performs a fully
  connected layer, also known as a dense layer,
  where each neuron is connected to every neuron
  in the previous layer.

The ideep::algorithm module provides optimized
implementations of these algorithms for various
hardware architectures, including Intel CPUs and
GPUs. These implementations are designed to make
efficient use of the hardware and provide high
performance for deep learning workloads.

61> thanks, it seems like a standard set of
algorithms. is there anything unique about it or
something we should watch out for?

The `ideep::algorithm` module provides a set of
highly optimized and scalable deep learning
algorithms, so it's very useful for building
high-performance deep learning applications. One
thing to keep in mind is that these algorithms are
highly optimized for Intel architectures and may
not perform as well on other
architectures. Additionally, the API may not be as
intuitive as some other deep learning frameworks,
so there may be a bit of a learning curve for
those new to the library. Overall, though, the
`ideep::algorithm` module is a powerful tool for
building high-performance deep learning models.

62> thanks, next `ideep::primitive_desc`

`ideep::primitive_desc` is a type in the Intel
oneAPI Deep Neural Network Library (oneDNN) that
represents the descriptor of a primitive
operation. A primitive operation is a basic
computation unit in oneDNN that implements
a specific algorithm on input data to produce
output data.

`primitive_desc` provides a way to create
a specific instance of a primitive operation, by
specifying its input and output tensors, as well
as any other required parameters. It also allows
for querying information about the primitive, such
as its expected memory format, and provides
a mechanism for error handling.

For example, to create an instance of the
convolution operation, one would first create
a `convolution_desc` object specifying the
convolution parameters such as the strides and
padding, then create
a `convolution_primitive_desc` object by passing
in the `convolution_desc` object and the
`memory_desc` objects representing the input and
output tensors. Finally, one can create an
instance of the convolution operation by passing
in the `convolution_primitive_desc` object and the
actual tensor data.

The `primitive_desc` is an important part of the
oneDNN API because it allows for efficient
implementation of neural network models by
optimizing the computations based on the specific
hardware platform and input data. It also provides
a way to ensure compatibility and reproducibility
across different systems and platforms.

63> cool! could we go into more depth?

Sure! `ideep::primitive_desc` is a class in the
Intel Deep Learning Library (iDeep) that provides
a description of a specific computation that needs
to be performed on a set of data. The description
contains information about the computation itself,
as well as the memory layout of the input and
output data.

One of the main benefits of
`ideep::primitive_desc` is that it allows for
efficient memory allocation and management. The
class provides information about the optimal
memory layout for the input and output data, as
well as the amount of memory required for the
computation. This information can be used to
allocate memory in a way that is optimal for the
computation, reducing memory overhead and
improving performance.

Another benefit of `ideep::primitive_desc` is that
it allows for dynamic optimization of the
computation. The class provides information about
the data types and sizes of the input and output
data, as well as the computational requirements of
the operation. This information can be used to
select the optimal implementation of the operation
based on the available hardware and other factors.

In summary, `ideep::primitive_desc` is a key
component of the iDeep library that provides
a detailed description of a computation, including
the memory layout of the input and output
data. This information can be used to optimize
memory allocation and select the optimal
implementation of the computation based on
hardware and other factors.

64> ok next, `ideep::stream`

`ideep::stream` is a class that encapsulates
a stream of computation operations on the
CPU. Streams are used to execute independent
operations asynchronously, in parallel. This can
result in better CPU utilization and increased
performance.

In general, streams allow for overlapping of
compute and data transfer operations. For example,
while the CPU is performing a computation on one
set of data, it can concurrently transfer data
from another part of memory to a different
location. This can lead to more efficient use of
system resources and faster overall computation.

Streams can be created using the
`ideep::stream::create` method. Once created,
operations can be added to the stream using the
`ideep::stream::enqueue` method. Operations added
to a stream can be executed in any order, as long
as they don't have data dependencies.

The `ideep::stream` class also provides a method
to synchronize the stream,
`ideep::stream::wait`. This method blocks the
calling thread until all operations on the stream
have completed.

Overall, `ideep::stream` is an important class for
achieving high-performance computations in
a parallelized, asynchronous manner.

65> thanks! `ideep::engine`

`ideep::engine` is an abstraction of
a computational device or system that can execute
computational primitives provided by Intel Math
Kernel Library for Deep Neural Networks
(MKL-DNN). The `engine` provides a way to
configure and manage the execution of the
primitives, such as specifying the device to use,
the number of threads, and the memory allocation
strategy.

An `engine` is created with a `backend_kind` that
specifies the device type to use, such as CPU or
GPU. The `engine` also provides a default stream
and a default memory allocation mode that can be
changed by setting the configuration options.

The `engine` class has a `kind` method that
returns the type of the backend device that the
`engine` represents. This can be useful when
creating `primitive_desc` objects or when
determining if an `engine` supports a certain type
of computation.

The `engine` class is used extensively throughout
the Intel MKL-DNN library, and provides a powerful
and flexible way to configure and manage the
execution of computational primitives on different
types of devices.

66> great! what are some real world use cases for
ideep? to my understanding, it is a set of
functional building blocks when optimizing deep
nets for intel cpu architecture.  is there
anything else to it?

Yes, you are correct that iDeep is a set of
functional building blocks for optimizing deep
neural networks on Intel CPUs. Some real-world use
cases of iDeep include image and speech
recognition, natural language processing,
recommendation systems, and many other
applications that require deep learning
techniques.

One of the key strengths of iDeep is its ability
to take advantage of the advanced features of
Intel CPUs, such as the AVX-512 instruction set
and other hardware optimizations, to achieve
faster training and inference times. Additionally,
iDeep provides a flexible API that allows
developers to customize their neural network
architectures and optimize them for specific
hardware configurations.

Another benefit of iDeep is its compatibility with
other deep learning frameworks such as TensorFlow,
PyTorch, and Caffe2, allowing developers to easily
integrate it into their existing deep learning
workflows.
