## caffe2op-fusedrowwise crate

The `caffe2op-fusedrowwise` crate is
a mathematical library for digital signal
processing and machine learning computations. It
contains various functions and mathematical
operations, including fully connected and bit
row-wise quantization. The crate also includes
functions for converting floating-point numbers to
fused row-wise quantized values, as well as for
converting fused row-wise quantized values back to
floating-point numbers.

**Note: This crate is currently being translated from C++ to Rust, and some function bodies may still be in the process of translation.**

Within this crate, you will find functions and
symbols such as `FUSED`, `DataFloat`,
`DataFusedQuantized`, `ConvertFn`,
`ConvertFnType`, `BitRowwiseQuantizedOp`, and
`FusedNBitRowwiseQuantizedToFloatOp`. The crate is
designed to be highly performant, with optimized
implementations that take advantage of modern
hardware and parallel processing.

The `caffe2op-fusedrowwise` crate is ideal for use
in applications that require highly optimized
numerical computations, such as machine learning
inference or digital signal processing. With its
powerful set of tools and functions, it can help
you build highly performant and efficient
algorithms for a wide range of applications.

## Mathematics
15> cool! could you explain the fused row-wise
mathematics a bit more? how and why do we fuse?

Certainly! Fused row-wise quantization is
a technique used in machine learning that aims to
reduce the memory and computation requirements of
storing and processing large matrices by combining
multiple operations into a single optimized
operation. Specifically, fused row-wise
quantization combines the following three
operations:

1. Scaling: This operation scales the input values
by a certain factor to improve their numerical
stability and optimize the computations.

2. Quantization: This operation maps continuous
values to a finite set of discrete values,
resulting in reduced memory requirements and
faster computations.

3. Bias: This operation adds a bias term to the
quantized values to shift their distribution and
optimize the computations.

By fusing these three operations into a single
operation, we can significantly reduce the
computation and memory requirements, as well as
improve the numerical stability of the
computations. This is particularly important in
large-scale machine learning applications where
the size of the data sets and models can be
enormous.

In fused row-wise quantization, the three
operations are applied row-wise to the input
matrix, which means that each row is scaled,
quantized, and biased independently of the other
rows. This allows for parallel processing and
efficient use of hardware resources, such as GPUs
and CPUs.

To implement fused row-wise quantization, we first
determine the scaling factor, bias term, and
quantization parameters for each row of the input
matrix. Then, we apply these parameters to the
corresponding row of the input matrix using
a single optimized operation. This results in
a smaller, quantized output matrix that can be
used for further processing, such as in neural
network layers.

Overall, fused row-wise quantization is a powerful
technique for reducing memory and computation
requirements in large-scale machine learning
applications, and it has become increasingly
popular in recent years as the size and complexity
of machine learning models and data sets have
continued to grow.

## Numerical Stability
16> how is the numerical stability improved? are
there certain equations we know of that govern
this behavior?

One way that numerical stability can be improved
in fused row-wise quantization is through the use
of scaling factors. These scaling factors are
applied to the input data before it is quantized,
and then they are included in the calculation of
the output.

Specifically, for each row in the input matrix,
the maximum absolute value is found, and then the
scale factor is chosen as the power of two that
makes this maximum absolute value fit within
a predetermined range. The scale factor is then
used to scale the values in that row, and the
quantization is performed based on the scaled
values.

By using these scaling factors, the numerical
range of the input data is adjusted so that it
fits within the range of the quantized data. This
can help to avoid numerical overflow or underflow,
which can occur when the input data has a wider
range than the quantized data.

The use of scaling factors can be further
optimized by using power-of-two scaling, which can
be implemented efficiently using bitshift
operations. This can help to reduce the
computational cost of the scaling operation.

The behavior of fused row-wise quantization can be
analyzed mathematically, for example by studying
the error introduced by the quantization
process. This can be done using techniques from
information theory and statistical signal
processing.

## Hardware Layer
17> how does this type of operator interact with
the hardware layer?

The performance of fused row-wise operators can be
greatly impacted by the underlying hardware. The
computation of the operator can be memory-bound,
and thus optimizing the memory access patterns can
be crucial. This is particularly true for CPUs,
which can suffer from cache thrashing when
accessing large amounts of memory. Vectorization
can also be important, as modern CPUs can perform
operations on multiple data elements at once by
utilizing SIMD instructions.

For GPUs, the performance of fused row-wise
operators can be improved by taking advantage of
the parallelism inherent in the architecture. GPUs
are designed to perform many computations
simultaneously, and can thus handle large amounts
of data in parallel. This makes them well-suited
to the computation of neural networks, which can
require the manipulation of large amounts of
data. However, the specific implementation of the
operator can still greatly affect the performance
on GPUs, as different operations may require
different amounts of computation and memory
access.

In general, it is important to optimize the
implementation of fused row-wise operators for the
specific hardware platform being used, in order to
achieve the best possible performance.

## I/O Dimensionality

18> what are the typical dimensionalities of input
and output? could you please describe the input
and output operands in more detail? thanks!

The dimensionalities of input and output operands
depend on the specific implementation of the fused
row-wise operator. In general, the input operand
for fused row-wise operations is a tensor with
shape `[batch_size, input_channels, input_height,
input_width]`, where `batch_size` is the number of
samples in a batch, `input_channels` is the number
of input channels, and `input_height` and
`input_width` are the height and width of the
input image or feature map, respectively.

The output operand of fused row-wise operations is
also a tensor, but with a slightly different shape
depending on the specific implementation. For
example, in the case of the fused row-wise
quantization operator, the output tensor has shape
`[batch_size, output_channels, output_height,
output_width]`, where `batch_size` is the number
of samples in a batch, `output_channels` is the
number of output channels, and `output_height` and
`output_width` are the height and width of the
output image or feature map, respectively. The
output tensor has the same `batch_size`, but
a different number of channels and possibly
a different height and width than the input
tensor.

In general, the input and output operands of fused
row-wise operators represent the input and output
feature maps of a neural network layer. The
dimensions of the input and output tensors are
defined by the architecture of the neural network
and the specific layer in question. The input and
output tensors contain the feature maps for each
sample in the batch, where each feature map is
a two-dimensional array of activation values for
a particular channel in the feature map.

## Parametrization
19> how can this operator be parametrized?

The Fused Row-wise Quantization operator can be
parametrized in various ways depending on the
specific use case. Here are some common ways in
which the operator can be parametrized:

1. Precision of quantization: The precision of
quantization determines the number of bits used to
represent the quantized values. This parameter can
be adjusted to balance the accuracy of the model
and the memory usage.

2. Scale and Bias: The scale and bias parameters
are used to linearly transform the input values
before quantization. This can help improve the
accuracy of the quantization.

3. Axis: The axis parameter specifies the
dimension along which the quantization is
performed. This can be useful in cases where the
input has multiple dimensions.

4. Round mode: The round mode parameter specifies
the rounding method to be used during
quantization. This can be important in cases where
the input values have high precision.

5. Quantization scheme: The quantization scheme
specifies the method used for quantization. There
are various schemes like uniform quantization,
logarithmic quantization, etc. that can be used.

6. Input and output data types: The data type of
the input and output operands can also be
parametrized. This can be useful for optimizing
performance and memory usage.

Overall, the choice of parameters depends on the
specific use case and the desired trade-offs
between accuracy, memory usage, and performance.

## Memory Consumption
20> what is its typical memory consumption? could
you provide example calculations for several
various sizes of inputs, outputs, and parameters?

The memory consumption of the Fused Rowwise
Quantization operator depends on the size of the
input, output, and the number of parameters used.

Let's consider an example of an input tensor `X`
with dimensions `(B, S, C)` where `B` is the batch
size, `S` is the sequence length, and `C` is the
number of input channels. The output tensor `Y`
will have the same dimensions as `X`.

The memory consumption of the input tensor `X`
will be `B x S x C x sizeof(DataType)`, where
`DataType` can be either `float32` or
`float16`. Similarly, the memory consumption of
the output tensor `Y` will also be `B
x S x C x sizeof(DataType)`.

The memory consumption of the parameters used in
the Fused Rowwise Quantization operator depends on
the number of input channels `C` and the number of
bits used for quantization `bitwidth`. The number
of parameters used in the operator will be `2
x C`, where `2` corresponds to the scale and bias
values for each input channel. Each of these
parameters is represented using the `float32` data
type.

Therefore, the total memory consumption can be
calculated as follows:

```
Memory Consumption = Memory Consumption of Input Tensor + Memory Consumption of Output Tensor + Memory Consumption of Parameters
                   = B x S x C x sizeof(DataType) + B x S x C x sizeof(DataType) + 2 x C x sizeof(float32)
                   = B x S x C x (sizeof(DataType) + sizeof(float32)) + 2 x C x sizeof(float32)
```

As an example, let's assume `B=32`, `S=128`,
`C=512`, and `bitwidth=8`. The memory consumption
for `float32` data type will be:

```
Memory Consumption = 32 x 128 x 512 x (4 + 4) + 2 x 512 x 4
                   = 268,959,744 bytes
                   = 256.5 MB
```

Similarly, the memory consumption for `float16`
data type will be:

```
Memory Consumption = 32 x 128 x 512 x (2 + 4) + 2 x 512 x 4
                   = 134,578,368 bytes
                   = 128.3 MB
```

Note that these calculations only take into
account the memory required for the input, output,
and parameters of the Fused Rowwise Quantization
operator. The total memory consumption will also
depend on other factors such as the batch size,
the number of layers in the neural network, and
the memory required for intermediate activations.

## Instruction Performance

21> cool! and what about instruction performance?
how many instructions will this take to compute?

The number of instructions required to compute
a fused row-wise operation can vary depending on
the specific implementation and hardware being
used. However, in general, this operation involves
a significant number of arithmetic operations,
such as multiplications and additions.

For example, a simple implementation of a fused
row-wise operation with a fully connected layer
could involve the following instructions for each
input row:

1. Load the input row into memory
2. Multiply the input row with the weight matrix
3. Add the bias vector to the result of the multiplication
4. Apply the activation function to the result
5. Multiply the result with the scale vector
6. Add the bias vector to the result

So, the number of instructions required for
a fused row-wise operation will depend on the
number of input rows, the size of the weight and
bias matrices, the type of activation function
used, and other factors specific to the
implementation.


## Architectures

22> which architectures are most well suited for
this operator?

The fused row-wise operator can be used on
a variety of hardware architectures, including
CPUs, GPUs, and specialized accelerators such as
FPGAs and ASICs. However, the specific performance
characteristics and optimal hardware choices can
vary depending on the exact implementation and
hardware setup. In general, architectures with
high memory bandwidth and parallel processing
capabilities tend to perform well for this type of
operation. Additionally, architectures with
hardware support for vector operations can also be
particularly efficient, as the fused row-wise
operator often involves performing the same
computation across multiple data elements.

23> do you have any specific examples?

Sure, here are a few examples of architectures
that are well-suited for the Fused Row-wise
Operator:

1. NVIDIA Volta and Turing GPUs: These GPUs have
Tensor Cores that can perform mixed-precision
matrix multiplication with high throughput, which
is well-suited for the Fused Row-wise Operator's
computations.

2. Google TPUs: TPUs are designed for efficient
matrix multiplication and have a dedicated
instruction set for it, which can make them a good
fit for the Fused Row-wise Operator.

3. Intel CPUs with AVX-512: The AVX-512
instruction set provides a significant performance
boost for matrix multiplication, which is used
heavily in the Fused Row-wise Operator.

4. ARM processors with the Scalable Vector
Extension (SVE): SVE is an extension to ARMv8-A
that provides scalable vectorization, which can be
used to efficiently perform matrix multiplication
operations required by the Fused Row-wise
Operator.

These are just a few examples, and there may be
other architectures that are also well-suited for
this operator depending on the specific
implementation and use case.
