# caffe2-registry

---

This crate is part of the ongoing translation of
the Caffe2 operator library from C++ to Rust. It
contains functions related to registering and
defining typed and untyped registries.

In the context of the Caffe2 operator library,
registries are used to store and manage
collections of objects or functions that can be
accessed dynamically at runtime. This is useful
for enabling flexible and extensible code that can
be customized based on the needs of the user or
the application.

The `declare_registry` and
`declare_typed_registry` functions are used to
declare new registries for storing different types
of objects or functions. The `define_registry` and
`define_typed_registry` functions are then used to
define the behavior of these registries, including
how objects or functions can be added, removed,
and accessed.

The `register_blob_deserializer` and
`register_blob_serializer` functions are specific
examples of how registries can be used in the
context of the Caffe2 operator library. They are
used to register functions that can be used to
serialize and deserialize data blobs for use in
the library.

Overall, the use of registries is a powerful tool
for enabling flexible and extensible code, and it
can be applied in a variety of applications beyond
the Caffe2 operator library.

34> could you tell me some more about registries?
what are their performance characteristics? why do
we need them?

Certainly!

Registries can be very useful for enabling
flexible and extensible code that can be
customized at runtime. They allow you to store and
manage collections of objects or functions in
a way that can be accessed dynamically.

One of the primary benefits of registries is that
they enable decoupling of code. By using
registries, you can write code that is more
modular and less tightly coupled to specific
implementation details. This can make it easier to
reuse code across different applications or
projects, and it can also make your code more
maintainable over time.

In terms of performance characteristics,
registries can introduce some overhead due to the
indirection involved in accessing objects or
functions dynamically. However, this overhead is
generally relatively small and is usually
outweighed by the benefits of greater flexibility
and extensibility.

Overall, the use of registries can be an effective
way to make your code more flexible and
extensible, and they can be used in a variety of
different applications and contexts beyond the
Caffe2 operator library.

35> how does a registry work?

A registry is essentially a lookup table that maps
names or keys to objects or functions. The
registry provides a way to register new objects or
functions with the table, and it also provides
a way to retrieve objects or functions by their
name or key.

In the context of Caffe2, registries are often
used to store and manage collections of operators
or other computational functions. The registry
provides a way to add new operators to the
collection, as well as a way to look up operators
by name or key when they are needed.

The basic workflow for using a registry in Caffe2
might look something like this:

1. Declare a new registry for storing objects or
   functions of a specific type.

2. Define the behavior of the registry, including
   how objects or functions can be added, removed,
   and accessed.

3. Register new objects or functions with the
   registry as needed.

4. Retrieve objects or functions from the registry
   as needed, typically by name or key.

For example, let's say you have a collection of
custom operators that you want to use in your
Caffe2 workflow. You might declare a new registry
for storing these operators, define the behavior
of the registry to allow for registering new
operators, and then register your custom operators
with the registry.

Later on, when you want to use one of your custom
operators, you can retrieve it from the registry
by name or key, and then use it in your workflow
as needed.

Overall, the registry provides a flexible and
extensible way to manage collections of objects or
functions, and it can be a powerful tool for
enabling more modular and maintainable code.

36> must we use strings for they keys?

No, in fact, keys in a registry don't necessarily
have to be strings. They can be any hashable
object that can be used as a dictionary key. This
could include integers, tuples, or other types of
objects.

In some cases, it may make sense to use
a non-string keyk for a registry, especially if
you want to use a more structured or semantic
approach to naming or categorizing objects. For
example, you might use a tuple of (operator_type,
input_type, output_type) as a key for a registry
of operators, where each element of the tuple
represents a different aspect of the operator's
behavior.

However, in many cases, using strings as keys can
be simpler and more flexible, especially if you
want to allow for arbitrary naming or
categorization of objects. For example, in Caffe2,
operator names are typically used as keys in the
registry of operators.

Ultimately, the choice of key type for a registry
depends on the specific requirements of the
application or context in which it is being used,
as well as any constraints or conventions imposed
by the programming language or framework being
used.

37> what else should we know about registries?
what are their gotchas?

Here are a few additional things to keep in mind
when working with registries:

1. Name conflicts: Because registries rely on
   unique names or keys to identify objects, there
   is always a risk of name conflicts if two
   objects have the same name or key. This can be
   especially problematic if the objects are being
   loaded from different modules or packages,
   where naming conventions may differ. To avoid
   conflicts, it can be helpful to use
   a consistent naming convention, or to use
   namespacing or prefixing to disambiguate
   objects.

2. Modularity: Registries can be a powerful tool
   for enabling modularity and code reuse, but
   they can also introduce tight coupling between
   modules or packages if not used carefully. To
   minimize coupling, it can be helpful to define
   clear interfaces for the objects in a registry,
   and to avoid overly complex dependencies
   between objects.

3. Performance: Registries can add some overhead
   to object creation and lookup, especially if
   they are used frequently or contain a large
   number of objects. To minimize this overhead,
   it can be helpful to use efficient data
   structures or algorithms for the registry, such
   as hash tables or search trees.

4. Complexity: Registries can add some complexity
   to code, especially if they are used
   extensively or in a large codebase. To keep
   things manageable, it can be helpful to define
   clear conventions and guidelines for how to use
   registries, and to avoid using them in
   situations where they may not be necessary or
   appropriate.

38> what other program constructs go along with
registries?

Registries are often used in conjunction with
other programming constructs or design patterns,
depending on the specific use case or
context. Here are a few examples:

1. Factory pattern: Registries can be used to
   implement the factory pattern, which is
   a creational pattern that involves using
   a factory method to create objects of different
   types based on a common interface. In this
   context, the registry serves as a lookup table
   for the factory method, allowing it to create
   objects of different types based on a common
   name or key.

2. Dependency injection: Registries can be used as
   part of a dependency injection framework, which
   is a design pattern that involves injecting
   dependencies into objects rather than having
   the objects create or manage their own
   dependencies. In this context, the registry
   serves as a central repository for managing and
   providing access to dependencies.

3. Plugin system: Registries can be used to
   implement a plugin system, which is a system
   for dynamically loading and registering plugins
   or modules at runtime. In this context, the
   registry serves as a way to discover and manage
   available plugins, allowing them to be loaded
   and used dynamically as needed.

4. Configuration management: Registries can be
   used as part of a configuration management
   system, which is a system for managing and
   storing configuration data for an application
   or system. In this context, the registry serves
   as a central repository for storing and
   accessing configuration data, allowing it to be
   easily managed and modified as needed.
